In this video we're going to take a look at a very powerful but very simple technique.
This is going to be very useful in your practical machine learning endeavors.
So we are in 0 9 saving models begin.
And as always the end product is in dash instructor.
So let's recall that whenever we train a model we are essentially trying to find out the optimum values
for these trainable parameters the values that we discussed earlier.
And once you have these values decided or once you have learned your machine has been trained you don't
want them to go off given your program finishes you want them to be saved somewhere right.
And that is the idea of saving what awaits.
So Chris has this functionality built in.
We've gone ahead and created this model and we've compiled the model as well.
Now what we want to do is we want to ensure that Qantas saves the moderates at the end of each book
for that get us uses a package called S5 by.
And this is not built into Anaconda.
So if you tried to run this code over here we should get an ever so no module named S5.
This is expected.
So let's go ahead and install it using a run command of notebook so we can say exclamation mark pip
install 5 by.
And this will be installed.
So you will see that disconnecting Phi Phi and it has no successfully installed it except now what we
want to do is we want to make sure that we restart the kernel so that it is available to the kernel.
So let's go ahead and restart the kernel and we're going to go ahead and execute all the commands again
so we're running all of these come ons and we want to get the output quality model again.
So modern summary and the optimization is done.
Now what we going to do is we want to import as Phi Phi and let's go ahead and put it in it's online
so that we are sure that it's working it's working fine now.
Now what we want to do is we want to import from it get a start callbacks so callbacks are essentially
functions which will be called at the end of different points.
Right.
So we are importing the model checkpoint callbacks.
So that is a callback that is built to get us and it will help us save the moderates.
This needs a file box so let's give it a file of checkpoints.
There's going to be the directory in which all the check points are going to be saved and we're going
to save rates dash improvement dash and then we going to put a tablet here.
So this is going to be colon 0 2 D.
So this is a placeholder for the epoch number in two decimal places.
And then we are going to have another.
Then we're going to have a dash and we're going to have another title here which is going to be about
accuracy.
And this is going to be point to.
Right so a decimal place obtuse to two levels of precision.
And then we are going to have HD has 5 which is the extension for S5 by.
So that is our final.
And then what we're going to do is we're going to create a checkpoint object which is going to be a
model checkpoint.
And we're going to see if that is going to be defined by that.
It should say to the monitor should be validation accuracy.
So it's going to monitor the value of validation accuracy and it's going to report it over here.
We also wanted to have a lot of verbosity.
So we wanted to put stuff and modestly will do Max.
So there is an option that you only want to save the best validation accuracy model.
But we're going to save all the intermediate models as well finally into the fit.
You want to go ahead and say callbacks is equal to what we're going to give it a list except this list
is only going to have the checkpoint object that we just created.
So in order to visualize this let's go over here and we've put a watch on the checkpoints folder and
as we execute it we're going to see that while this fitting is going on after each epoch we're going
to have DVDs being dumped over here.
So this is the epoch number and this is the current validation accuracy that we're achieving right.
So we have limited this fitting to just five epochs.
And at the end of the five epochs we have these five different rates saved over here.
Right.
So let's go back over here for a minute and try to evaluate the model.
So currently the model evaluates to two point zero nine loss and zero point two five validation accuracy.
Now we have to up the model and now let's say at a later stage when we go ahead and try to load this
model how are we going to do that.
So for this again let's go ahead and we struck the model restart the column sorry.
So that the current parameter rates go away the memory is cleared.
Everything is fine and we're going to go ahead and run the code again.
The only difference this time is going to be that we are not going to perform the fitting.
So we have combined the model.
But beyond that we are not going to perform this fitting portion of over here.
So we have done this and we have not done this.
We have not done the fitting.
This output is from the previous run.
And now what we can do is we can go ahead and load the model that we saved in the last run.
So for that we go over here we get this fine name and we can say that we want to load the weights from
checkpoints slash this file.
So this is as simple as that.
Remember that modern outfit is only responsible for finding the values of the parameters.
And we have those parameters saved over here.
So this load weights is going to do the exact same thing as modern outfit except it's going to not learn
but load from the fight.
So let's go ahead and run this and then evaluate this model on the same asset and why test it.
So we get the exact same result all here as we did with deep model.
The reason is that the model weights are essentially all that capture the models learning and we are
dumping into a file and loading it at a later stage.
So these weights you can deploy to another machine for instance if you have access to a very highly
powerful machine with a lot of use you can run your code on that.
And once that is running over there and it's fine you can go ahead and move debates to your machine
and perform predictions on a low end machine.
So that's a very powerful tool to have under your belt and make sure you keep using it when you're performing
training so that you can load your weights at a later stage.